A few projects and people who use libarchive.

== Who Uses Libarchive? ==

* '''FreeBSD'''
** libarchive was originally developed for [http://freebsd.org/ FreeBSD]; it was first released with FreeBSD 5.3 in November 2004.
** bsdtar is the default system tar starting with FreeBSD 6
** bsdcpio is the default system cpio starting with FreeBSD 8
** Kai Wang's "ar" is standard with FreeBSD 8
** Dag-Erling Smørgrav's "unzip" is standard with FreeBSD 8

* '''Apple Mac OS X'''
** since 2009 libarchive is part of OS X
** bsdtar ist the default system tar
** bsdcpio is the default system cpio

* '''Microsoft Windows'''
** since 2017 (Windows 10 insider build 17063) libarchive is shipped with the command line tools
** bsdtar is dhe default system tar

* Package Managers
** [http://www.archlinux.org/pacman/ Pacman] package manager on [http://www.archlinux.org/ Arch Linux] uses libarchive
** [http://www.voidlinux.org/xbps XBPS] package manager on [http://www.voidlinux.org/ Void Linux] uses libarchive
** [http://www.netbsd.org/ NetBSD]'s pkg_install package manager uses libarchive.
** [http://cmake.org/ CMake] uses libarchive
** [http://crux.nu/gitweb/?p=tools/pkgutils.git pkgutils] from the [http://crux.nu/ CRUX distribution] use libarchive
** The [http://paludis.pioto.org/ Paludis] multi-format package manager for [http://www.gentoo.org/ Gentoo] and [http://www.exherbo.org/ Exherbo] uses libarchive

* Archiving tools and File Browsers
** The [http://www.tarsnap.com/ tarsnap] service uses libarchive in its client software.
** [http://www.springyarchiver.com Springy] for Mac OS X uses libarchive to process TAR, PAX and CPIO archives.
** [http://projects.gnome.org/nautilus/ Nautilus] file browser file-roller plugin uses libarchive
** The [http://www.cybernoia.de/software/archivemount/ archivemount] filesystem (part of [http://fuse.sourceforge.net/ FUSE]) uses libarchive
** [http://kde.org/ KDE]'s [http://utils.kde.org/projects/ark/ ark] file browser uses libarchive for tar, deb, and ISO files.
** [http://reproducible.io/ CARE] — short for "Comprehensive Archiver for Reproducible Execution" — uses libarchive.
** [ https://plus.google.com/+FrancoisBeaufort/posts/7JU15yqC4HR ZIP Unpacker Component Extension] uses libarchive in Chrome OS
** [https://wiki.gnome.org/Projects/gvfs GVfs] GNOME Virtual file system uses libarchive as one of its [https://wiki.gnome.org/Projects/gvfs/backends backends] to access archive files
** [https://www.samba.org/ Samba] version 4.2 and higher uses libarchive in [https://www.samba.org/samba/docs/man/manpages/smbclient.1.html smbclient(1)]

* Ports of libarchive, bsdtar, etc.
** [http://gnuwin32.sourceforge.net/ GnuWin32] and [http://cygwin.org/ Cygwin] for Windows.
** [http://libarchive.darwinports.com/ Darwinports] for MacOS
** [http://packages.qa.debian.org/liba/libarchive.html Debian Linux]
** [http://packages.gentoo.org/package/app-arch/libarchive Gentoo]

* Security Software
** [https://github.com/BayshoreNetworks/yextend yextend] uses libarchive

* Other Software
** [http://www.hydrogen-music.org/ Hydrogen] advanced drum machine uses libarchive
** [https://github.com/danigm/libgepub libgepub] GObject based library for handling and rendering epub documents uses libarchive
** [https://wiki.gnome.org/Projects/libgxps libgxps] GObject based library for handling and rendering XPS documents uses libarchive
** [http://0ldsk00l.ca/nestopia/ Nestopia UE] Nintendo Entertainment System/Famicom emulator uses libarchive
** [http://clayo.org/osmo/ Osmo] personal organizer for GTK+ version 0.2.12 and higher uses libarchive 
** [https://github.com/miekg/rdup/ rdup] utility to create a file list suitable for making backups uses libarchive
** [https://github.com/haiwen/seafile/ Seafile] open source cloud storage system uses libarchive
** [https://zealdocs.org/ Zeal] offline documentation browser uses libarchive

If you know of other projects that should be in this list, please let us know.